README.md, before:

# [react-sync](http://moodysalem.github.io/react-sync)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/moodysalem/react-sync.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/moodysalem/react-sync)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-sync.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-sync)

A declarative approach to fetching data via [superagent](https://github.com/visionmedia/superagent)

# Install
    npm install --save react-sync

# Stability
The API for this component is still undergoing change.

# Size
The distributed build includes several polyfills, e.g. for Promise and Object.assign and weighs in at ~25kb.

# Component Usage

### Code
    var React = require('react');
    var ReactDOM = require('react-dom');
    var reactSync = React.createFactory(require('react-sync'));
    ReactDOM.render(reactSync({
        url: 'myrestfulresource'
    }, myComponentThatNeedsData({ aProp: 'example' })), document.getElementById('app'));

### Properties

| Property | Type | Required | Default | Usage |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ------- | ----- |
| url  | String | Yes | None | Pass the URL of the resource used for all requests |
| primaryKey | String | No | id | The object attribute that uniquely identifies a record in the data set. |
| initialData | Any | No | null | The data before any successful fetches occur |
| dataName | String | No | null | Pass a name for the data, that will be used to get the names of the properties passed to the child component. |
| readOnMount | Boolean | No | True | Whether the component does a GET to refresh its data at the URL when mounted. |
| readOnUpdate | Boolean | No | True | Whether the component does another GET to refresh its data when properties change that would cause the URL or query parameters to change |
| params | Object | No | null | Query parameters to be passed when fetching the resource. |
| headers | Object | No | null | The headers to use in all requests |
| contentType | String | No | json | How to serialize data in PUTs and POSTs |
| accept | String | No | json | The accept header used in all requests |
| count | Number | No | null | Pass count to indicate the number of results to return. The name of the query parameter comes from the next property. |
| countParam | String | No | count | The name of the query parameter that is used to tell the server how many records to fetch. |
| start | Number | No | null | Pass start to indicate the number of the record to retrieve to the server. |
| startParam | String | No | start | The name of the parameter that is used to tell the server the first record to fetch. |
| sorts | Array of Object | No | null | A list of sorts that should be applied to the collection when fetched from the server. |
| sortInfoSeparator | String | No | Pipe | The character used to separate the sort direction (A or D) from the sort attribute |
| sortParam | String | No | sort | The name of the query parameter that is used to tell the server the sort orders. |
| onCreate | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a POST request is successful |
| onRead | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a GET request is successful |
| onUpdate | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a PUT request is successful |
| onDelete | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a DELETE request is successful |
| onError | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when any request fails |
| beforeCreate | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any POST request before it is made |
| beforeRead | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any GET request before it is made |
| beforeUpdate | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any PUT request before it is made |
| beforeDelete | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any DELETE request before it is made |


### Methods
#### Promise doRead()
Triggers a new GET request to refresh the data from the URL.

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

#### Promise doCreate(data)
Trigger a POST to the URL with the data in the request body. The component does not use the response data. If you would
like to update the collection in response to a create event, you should trigger a read.

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

#### Promise doSave(data, \[primaryKey\])
Trigger a PUT to the URL with the data in the request body. If the primary key is specified, it will be joined to the
URL. In addition, if the primary key is specified, the response data will replace the object in the component's data.

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

#### Promise doDelete(\[primarKey\])
Trigger a DELETE to the URL with the data in the request body. If the primary key is specified, it will be joined to the
URL. On success, the appropriate data will be removed (the data corresponding to the primary key if specified, otherwise
all the component data.)

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

### Child Properties

The child of this component receives the following properties.

| Property | Type | Description |
| -------- | ---- | ----------- |
| data | Any | The data received from the server |
| fetched | Boolean | Whether the data has ever been fetched from the server. |
| loading | Boolean | Whether a request is being processed. |
| doCreate | Function | A reference to #doCreate |
| doRead | Function | A reference to #doRead |
| doUpdate | Function | A reference to #doUpdate |
| doDelete | Function | A reference to #doDelete |

If the dataName property is provided, the 'data', 'fetched', and 'loading' properties will be capitalized and prefixed
by the dataName , while the 'doCreate', 'doRead', 'doUpdate' and 'doDelete' properties will be suffixed with the dataName.

e.g. with dataName of 'message', the property names would be messageData, messageFetched, messageLoading, doCreateMessage, doReadMessage...


# Fetching from multiple sources
You may need to fetch data from multiple sources. You can do so by composing a component of multiple react-sync elements
with different dataNames.

e.g. :

    var React = require('react');
    var ReactDOM = require('react-dom');
    var reactSync = React.createFactory(require('react-sync'));
    ReactDOM.render(reactSync({
        url: 'myrestfulresource',
        dataName: 'resourceOne'
    }, reactSync({
        url: 'otherresource',
        dataName: 'resourceTwo'
    }, myComponentThatNeedsData({ aProp: 'example' }))), document.getElementById('app'));


## Suggested Architecture
You should define ReactSync wrappers with URLs and dataNames in a separate file. You can use
[react-default-props](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-default-props) to easily create new components from ReactSync
with default URLs, e.g. a component used for fetching and manipulating posts, or a component for fetching data on a
specific user.

Commit message:

add customization to control the ascending and descending string

README.md, after:

# [react-sync](http://moodysalem.github.io/react-sync)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/moodysalem/react-sync.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/moodysalem/react-sync)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-sync.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-sync)

A declarative approach to fetching data via [superagent](https://github.com/visionmedia/superagent)

# Install
    npm install --save react-sync

# Stability
The API for this component is still undergoing change.

# Size
The distributed build includes several polyfills, e.g. for Promise and Object.assign and weighs in at ~25kb.

# Component Usage

### Code
    var React = require('react');
    var ReactDOM = require('react-dom');
    var reactSync = React.createFactory(require('react-sync'));
    ReactDOM.render(reactSync({
        url: 'myrestfulresource'
    }, myComponentThatNeedsData({ aProp: 'example' })), document.getElementById('app'));

### Properties

| Property | Type | Required | Default | Usage |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ------- | ----- |
| url  | String | Yes | None | Pass the URL of the resource used for all requests |
| primaryKey | String | No | 'id' | The object attribute that uniquely identifies a record in the data set. |
| initialData | Any | No | null | The data before any successful fetches occur |
| dataName | String | No | null | Pass a name for the data, that will be used to get the names of the properties passed to the child component. |
| readOnMount | Boolean | No | true | Whether the component does a GET to refresh its data at the URL when mounted. |
| readOnUpdate | Boolean | No | true | Whether the component does another GET to refresh its data when properties change that would cause the URL or query parameters to change |
| params | Object | No | null | Query parameters to be passed when fetching the resource. |
| headers | Object | No | null | The headers to use in all requests |
| contentType | String | No | 'json' | How to serialize data in PUTs and POSTs |
| accept | String | No | 'json' | The accept header used in all requests |
| count | Number | No | null | Pass count to indicate the number of results to return. The name of the query parameter comes from the next property. |
| countParam | String | No | 'count' | The name of the query parameter that is used to tell the server how many records to fetch. |
| start | Number | No | null | Pass start to indicate the number of the record to retrieve to the server. |
| startParam | String | No | 'start' | The name of the parameter that is used to tell the server the first record to fetch. |
| sorts | Array of Object | No | null | A list of sorts that should be applied to the collection when fetched from the server. |
| ascendingText | String | No | 'A' | How ascending is represented in the sort query parameter |
| descendingText | String | No | 'D' | How descending is represented in the sort query parameter |
| sortInfoSeparator | String | No | '\|' | The character used to separate the sort direction (A or D) from the sort attribute |
| sortParam | String | No | 'sort' | The name of the query parameter that is used to tell the server the sort orders. |
| onCreate | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a POST request is successful |
| onRead | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a GET request is successful |
| onUpdate | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a PUT request is successful |
| onDelete | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when a DELETE request is successful |
| onError | Function | No | no-op | A function to be called when any request fails |
| beforeCreate | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any POST request before it is made |
| beforeRead | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any GET request before it is made |
| beforeUpdate | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any PUT request before it is made |
| beforeDelete | Function | No | no-op | A function that is called to modify any DELETE request before it is made |


### Methods
#### Promise doRead()
Triggers a new GET request to refresh the data from the URL.

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

#### Promise doCreate(data)
Trigger a POST to the URL with the data in the request body. The component does not use the response data. If you would
like to update the collection in response to a create event, you should trigger a read.

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

#### Promise doSave(data, \[primaryKey\])
Trigger a PUT to the URL with the data in the request body. If the primary key is specified, it will be joined to the
URL. In addition, if the primary key is specified, the response data will replace the object in the component's data.

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

#### Promise doDelete(\[primarKey\])
Trigger a DELETE to the URL with the data in the request body. If the primary key is specified, it will be joined to the
URL. On success, the appropriate data will be removed (the data corresponding to the primary key if specified, otherwise
all the component data.)

Returns a promise that resolves to superagent's response object, and rejects with the error object.

### Child Properties

The child of this component receives the following properties.

| Property | Type | Description |
| -------- | ---- | ----------- |
| data | Any | The data received from the server |
| fetched | Boolean | Whether the data has ever been fetched from the server. |
| loading | Boolean | Whether a request is being processed. |
| doCreate | Function | A reference to #doCreate |
| doRead | Function | A reference to #doRead |
| doUpdate | Function | A reference to #doUpdate |
| doDelete | Function | A reference to #doDelete |

If the dataName property is provided, the 'data', 'fetched', and 'loading' properties will be capitalized and prefixed
by the dataName , while the 'doCreate', 'doRead', 'doUpdate' and 'doDelete' properties will be suffixed with the dataName.

e.g. with dataName of 'message', the property names would be messageData, messageFetched, messageLoading, doCreateMessage, doReadMessage...


# Fetching from multiple sources
You may need to fetch data from multiple sources. You can do so by composing a component of multiple react-sync elements
with different dataNames.

e.g. :

    var React = require('react');
    var ReactDOM = require('react-dom');
    var reactSync = React.createFactory(require('react-sync'));
    ReactDOM.render(reactSync({
        url: 'myrestfulresource',
        dataName: 'resourceOne'
    }, reactSync({
        url: 'otherresource',
        dataName: 'resourceTwo'
    }, myComponentThatNeedsData({ aProp: 'example' }))), document.getElementById('app'));


## Suggested Architecture
You should define ReactSync wrappers with URLs and dataNames in a separate file. You can use
[react-default-props](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-default-props) to easily create new components from ReactSync
with default URLs, e.g. a component used for fetching and manipulating posts, or a component for fetching data on a
specific user.
